# Pony Gradle Plugin

A Gradle Plugin to build [Pony](http://www.ponylang.org/) projects.

## Features

* compile Pony sources.
* resolve dependencies using `bundle.json` - compatible with [pony-stable](https://github.com/jemc/pony-stable).
* resolve transitive dependencies (if the dependencies have a `bundle.json` file).

## Build files

To enable Gradle support, a basic `build.gradle` file must be supplied.
Dependencies are declared separately (to be compatible with `pony-stable`) in the `bundle.json` file.

### `build.gradle` - the Gradle build file.

Simplest possible example without any configuration (see below for defaults):

```groovy
plugins {
  id "com.athaydes.pony" version "0.1.0"
}
```

The above is all you need, but you may configure the build with the following options:

* `packageName`: String - name of the package to compile. Defaults to `src`.
* `docs`: boolean - whether to generate docs. Defaults to `false`.
* `debug`: boolean - whether to use the `--debug` option (will skip the LLVM optimizations passes).
           Defaults to `false`.
           
To get started, see the [Hello World](samples/hello-world) sample.

See the [pony-configured](samples/pony-configured) sample for a build file that uses all options. 

### `bundle.json` - pony-stable dependencies file.

Example:

```json
{
  "name": "my-project",
  "version": "2.3.4",
  "deps": [
    { "type": "github", "repo": "jemc/pony-inspect", "version": "1.0.1" },
    { "type": "github", "repo": "other/dep" },
    { "type": "local", "local-path": "../my-other-dep" }
  ]
}
```

Everything in the json file is optional. Unrecognized fields are ignored.

## Dependency types

The currently supported dependency types are the following:

### GitHub

> GitHub dependencies are downloaded using the GitHub API, so other Git repositories are not
  currently supported.

GitHub dependencies have the following fields:

* `type` (mandatory): must be `github`.
* `repo` (mandatory): `<github-user>/<repository-name>`.
* `version` (optional): tag/branch/commit

If `version` is not given, the latest tag will be used, or if there's no tags, the main branch
(usually `master`).

See the [pony-basic](samples/pony-basic) sample for an example.

### Local

Local dependencies are simple Pony projects that are located in the local file system.

They are declared using the following fields:

* `type` (mandatory): must be `local`.
* `local-path` (mandatory): the path, relative to the root of this project, to the dependency project.

See the [pony-multi-modules](samples/pony-multi-modules) sample for an example.

## Tasks

The following tasks are added by this plugin:

* `cleanPony`: deletes all artifacts created by previous builds.
* `resolvePonyDependencies`: resolves the project dependencies.
* `unpackPonyDependencies`: unpacks the dependencies archives.
* `compilePony`: compiles Pony sources and dependencies.

Normally, all you need to do to build your project is run `compilePony`, or just `compile`:

```
gradle compile
```

The other tasks will be run automatically if necessary.

You can run only the task you want as well, for example:

```
gradle resolve
```

The above will resolve all dependencies. If any dependencies need to be downloaded, they will be,
so that transitive dependencies can be also resolved.

To **update dependencies**, currently, the only way is to clean the build, then compile again.

```
gradle clean compile
```

## Build layout

Everything the Pony plugin creates goes into Gradle's `project.buildDir`, which is `build` by default.

Sources should go into the `packageName` directory, as in any Pony project.

For a project called `pony-basic`, the layout would look something like this after built:

```
├── build                 # generated by the Pony plugin
│   ├── ext-libs          # external libraries sources
│   │   ├── unpacked      # unpacked libraries
│   │   │   ├── jemc-pony-inspect-03a65d4
│   │   │   │   ...
│   │   │   ├── jemc-pony-sodium-d293cdb
│   │   │   │   ...
│   │   │   └── jemc-pony-zmq-6e9157e
│   │   │       ...
│   │   └── zips          # packaged libraries (not necessary to compile)
│   │       ├── jemc-pony-inspect.zip
│   │       ├── jemc-pony-sodium.zip
│   │       └── jemc-pony-zmq.zip
│   ├── pony-basic        # generated by ponyc
│   └── pony-basic.dSYM
│       └── Contents
│           ├── Info.plist
│           └── Resources
│               └── DWARF
│                   └── pony-basic
├── build.gradle          # Gradle build file
├── bundle.json           # dependencies file
└── pony-basic            # source directory
    └── Main.pony

20 directories, 79 files
```

